Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
Cats have supersonic hearing
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
Cats have 3 eyelids.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
